# Ege Cavus' Developer Portfolio
As an electronic engineering student and software hobbyist, I have created a number of side projects over the years in various programming languages, including Python, C++, and Javascript. These are some of the publicly available projects that I've joyfully developed. Feel free to contact me through my email: ege.cavus42@gmail.com or ege.cavus@warwick.ac.uk.
___
**Ongoing Works**: This summer I started building a full-stack website that employes Typescript within a Next.js framework, using TailwindCss styling. It is connected to MongoDB and provides multiple data display and acquisition features. It uses RESTful APIs to connect to databases and for other data injection applications. Using a Node.js server, it connects to an external API which takes online payments in a secure manner. The website will go live very soon.
___
Here is a concise summary of the portfolio components.

1. **MotorPowerV1** : This is a project that I undertook while working in the Data Analytics Team of Warwick Moto. Our team was given a timeseries of simulated speed values around a racing circuit. Our job was to model a digital-twin for the motorcycle and determine the power generated by the motor using physics. We were able to obtain the torque and RPM values at the motor shaft. We then tried multiple shaft diameters to see how the RPM and torque values behaved. Using supplier constraints for safe operations, we made some diameter suggestions for maximum performance under the margins of safety. Our results were used by the Design Team.

2. **AI Tic-Tac-Toe Game**: This is a simple tic-tac-toe game. The only difference, you don't have to find an opponent to play it. Using the Minimax algorithm, the computer discover the most optimal move for every counter-move one can make. After evaluating every possible move, the algorithm backtracks through the game tree, based on its turn, it will either choose the maximum (if max) or minimum (if min) reward. By employing the Alpha-Beta Pruning, certain node paths are blocked if beta is larger than alpha for that node, which optimizes the performance. Because of this, the code is fast enough for an enjoyable game.

3. **FFT Simulation**: This project was from my Extended Essay that I wrote on the topic of reflectance and transmittance characteristics on anti-reflective coatings. In this script, I used Python libraries such as NumPy and MatPlotLib. When run, the code simulates an electromagnetic wave passing through a medium, with some layers made of different materials at the center. The main layer is covered by a bilayer of anti-reflective coating. By changing the independent variable that is the electrical permittivity of the anti-reflective coating layers, we were able to observe how the reflectance and transmittance characteristics change. By employing a Power Spectral Analysis and an d-FFT, I was able to observe the reflectance and transmittance percentages. I justified an equation that gave the most optimal electrical permittivity for an anti-reflectance coating based on the target material's properties, as the highest simulated transmittence was observed when the theoretically optimal permittivity was used. In this project, I simulated a real-world occurance with computation, a strategy which is employed in a large number of STEM industries all over the world.

4. **Flight Computer**: Last year, I had the oppurtunity to program the flight computer on a water rocket in a group project. For this, we used an arduino microcontroller, and were instructed to obtain data (accelearation, rotational velocity, etc.) by programming it using the arduino libraries. I was able to connect to the proper libraries, and get real-time data from the serial. I made sure the data we were recieving were realistic. Aside from the programming, I had sole responsibility on the prototyping process. I did through research into the sensor integration and made sure that every sensor got enough power to run.

5. **RTL Projects**: Refer to the word document under the RTL projects folder for more detail. 

